This is the RepRapPro Mendel V1.1

NOTES
=================

Rhys, Jan 2013

Multicolour functionality - Initially supports 3 extruders/materials/colours, 4 with future electronics

All rods are identical to RepRapPro Mendel 1 to ease upgrade if required

Printed plastic volume and print time reduced by 20-25%

Machine redesigned to improve working volume and minimise print time for replication.  Every component has changed with the exception of the bar clamps.

Bed sits lower and on stiffer springs/bolts for improved speeds and build quality - Y frog redesigned

 X axis changed to vertical setup - allows for up to 4 extruders with future electronics, or 3 extruders + fan mount for main extruder with on current electronics. 

Y for shortened to allow all 4 extruders to access all of the bed. Build volume now 200X200X150 for all extruders, total travel available is 250x230x150.

Z Endstop adjuster incorporated into X Motor Bracket

X carriage now includes mounting points for a (future) hot end PCB to ease wiring

Switched to MXL belts for improved build quality. MXL on X axis is now held by a second piece of belt which is press fit into the X carriage - eases print complexity.

XLR bracket incorporated into frame feet

Y motor bracket is now laser cut MDF - substantially reduces noise, and reduces printing requirement. Laser cut components fit into wasted space within existing laser cut sheets. Previous design is available as a printed alternative.

Heated bed insulator updated to include stiffer mounting points, also redesigned to be symmetric to ease assembly and include laser etched instructions to assist with wiring

X & Y have slotted motor mounts for belt tensioning as per the RepRapPro Huxley for simplicity relative to V1

All motors now only attach via 2 M3 caps screws to ease assembly.

X endstop mount has been incorporated into X motor bracket, Y/Z Endstop holders are now interchangeable to ease assembly

X carriage bearing locations repositioned to ensure the maximum distance possible between plastic and hot parts of the extruder to reduce the risk of thermal damage.

Printed belt guides are now included for the Y axis to eliminate belt binding, belt guides are also integrated into the X motor mount.

Extruders are attached using M3 double helix spring washers as an interface between plastic components and hot ends to allow for vertical adjustment in a multiple head setup




